LIVE DRAFT WORKSPACE — OCTOBER 2026

Entry point
The default page is now Draft (#draft). Existing archive views remain available
at #history, #projections, #valuations, #keepers, #rosters and #notes.

The current-player panel shows observed leading bid, projections in all eight
categories, saved neutral value, live expected price, your team fit, reserve and
bid cap. BID / HOLD / PASS is advisory. It never clicks Yahoo's bid controls.
CHECK SYNC takes precedence when the live feed is stale or an update is pending.
The right column shows all franchises, remaining cash, legal max, open slots,
category needs, and a distinction between observed bidding and estimated interest.
Available players support search, position, price/value/fit sorts and a watchlist.
My roster, draft results and observed bids are separate board views.

Practice mock draft
Choose Try practice draft, then Start mock draft. Restart practice begins with
the confirmed keepers and no simulated sales. Existing practice histories remain
available after this update; restart to begin a complete mock from the top.
Nomination order is highest saved neutral value first, matching the board's
default sort. Search, watchlist and display sorting do not change that order.
Each player gets a fixed 10-second auction; bids do not extend the deadline.
Opponents bid automatically. Your selected team bids only when you click Bid or
submit a custom amount. The suggested cap is advice; the hard limit is legal cash
after minimum reserves and valid roster slots. A leading bid cannot be withdrawn.
Pass blocks your bid controls for this player until you choose Rejoin bidding.
At zero, the highest bidder receives the player at their final bid. An unbid
player is passed over without spending anyone's money. A brief result appears
before the next nomination. Rosters, budgets, remaining values and fit update
through the same event journal used by the live board, in a separate session.

Opponents have varied per-player spending limits based on current market price,
team fit and legal budget. These are simulated behaviors, not learned models of
the real managers. The draft stops when rosters are full or no eligible players
remain; it does not silently fill your roster if you choose not to bid.
Pause freezes the clock. Opening settings, switching teams or modes, navigating
away, hiding the tab, or a long browser suspension pauses the mock. Reloading
restores the current player and saved time, paused. Restart retains your practice
roster settings and never changes your live events, projections or saved values.

Chrome setup — watcher 0.3.0
1. Download /static/yahoo-draft-watcher.zip, extract it, and load the folder in
   chrome://extensions using Load unpacked. For an existing install, replace the
   contents of its folder and click Reload. Refresh both draft tabs after updating.
2. The watcher requires access only to basketball.fantasysports.yahoo.com and the
   Survivor production origin for automatic discovery. Optional manual pairing
   supports another HTTPS Survivor origin or localhost. Allow in Incognito when
   applicable; automatic pairing stays within the same regular/incognito context.
3. Open Survivor /?yahooMock=1#draft and join a Yahoo salary-cap mock before it
   starts. The room connects automatically: no pairing, team entry, budget entry,
   roster-size entry, or field picking in the normal mock workflow.
4. The adapter reads the rendered Budget roster list, Max Offer/Budget auction
   panel, current price/leader, and explicit completed-pick regions. It never
   treats the offer button as the current bid or infers a sale from a timer ending.
5. Check the first real Yahoo nomination/bid/result when testing a new layout.
   Advanced setup retains explicit pairing, CSS overrides, and field pickers as
   recovery tools. Actual Yahoo DOM compatibility is not yet verified; browser
   checks use an illustrative fixture derived from the user's screenshots.

Automatic import is mock-only. Each new Yahoo room creates a fresh test, backs up
the preceding mock locally, and keeps undelivered old-room events out of the new
room. It does not change real drafts, keeper evidence, forecasts, or manager
history. Reopening the same room preserves its session. Concurrent rooms cannot
steal the active capture. Multiple destinations require an explicit selection.

Join before the first sale. If starting budgets cannot be reconstructed from
rendered completed picks, the adapter waits instead of inventing missing data.
Roster size is imported; position-specific slot eligibility remains unconfirmed
unless explicitly configured. Unique player initials/diacritics are resolved
against the saved projection names; ambiguous initials are not guessed.

For a real league draft, use Advanced setup to explicitly pair the real Survivor
workspace and Yahoo draft tab, then enable Save real draft. An identified mock or
unknown room never automatically chooses a real workspace.

Adapter status and limits
The current Yahoo draft DOM has NOT been inspected in this workspace. The
extension is a configurable passive DOM adapter, not a verified universal Yahoo
integration. No invented Yahoo selectors or undocumented WebSocket formats are
baked in. A real Yahoo draft/mock-draft calibration pass is still required.
The interface uses an auction-room layout; exact visual parity with the current
Yahoo room cannot be checked without seeing that room.

Mutation changes are observed immediately; a 180 ms poll covers missed mutations.
The initial bid waits for fields to settle. A sold-status signal must remain
stable for at least 350 ms. Result rows provide an independent confirmation path.
Only explicitly rendered text is read. Disappearance or a changed nomination is
never assumed to be a completed sale. A hidden, coalesced or never-rendered bid
cannot be recovered by this adapter. Start before the first nomination. Chrome
background throttling, virtualized lists and changed layouts can reduce coverage.
The page labels the log as observed bids and stops bid advice when stale.

Data and privacy
No Yahoo passwords, cookies, OAuth tokens or network response bodies are read or
sent. Page elements are examined locally; only normalized draft information is
relayed, never full-page HTML. The extension has no Yahoo write operations.
Automatic host access covers Yahoo Fantasy Basketball and the Survivor production
origin. Other destinations require optional origin access. The receiver tab is
checked for the Survivor app marker and bound to a random nonce and session ID.
Updates reach the selected Survivor tab via Chrome messaging and an isolated-world
page bridge. When real recording is enabled, the page saves accepted normalized
events through key-protected APIs. Existing forecast and imported-history routes
remain read-only. Saved real drafts and manager summaries are visible to anyone
who can open the app; unrecorded local drafts and Yahoo mock data are not uploaded.

Draft state is stored under survivor.draft.v1 in this browser's localStorage.
The first session freezes a compact snapshot of its saved forecast and confirmed
keepers, identified by the original run ID. Subsequent deployments do not rewrite
that snapshot. New live session explicitly starts from the latest saved forecast.
Browser data deletion loses local sessions; Export session creates a JSON backup.
Import validates and replays that snapshot and events before it can be restored.
Exports include one draft session's frozen inputs and accepted events; pending
mapping/ignored updates and extension selectors remain in browser storage.
Practice uses real projections and simulated activity in an independent session.

The extension persists up to 2,000 undelivered updates and retains stable event IDs
across worker restarts. It deletes queue entries only after the page durably saves
and acknowledges them. A full queue pauses capture rather than silently dropping
the oldest events. Reconnection can replay updates; deduplication prevents double
spending. A new session cannot silently receive the previous session's queued
updates. Explicit queue clearing discards those unsent updates. Review gaps using
Yahoo's completed results or manual entry. Multiple tabs cannot silently overwrite
a changed draft: a storage conflict requires reloading before another edit.

Real-draft recording and saved team projections
The owner adds DRAFT_RECORDING_KEY (a random value of at least 24 characters) to
Railway's dashboard service and deploys that configuration themselves. Nothing
in this implementation provisions Railway access or changes account settings.
The key is never returned by an API, included in exports or embedded in the page.
All recording writes require the key as a bearer header. Public viewing needs no
key. Without the variable, recording writes return a configuration error.

Configure roster settings, choose Save real draft and enter the recording key.
The baseline freezes player projections, values, keeper rosters, team identities,
starting budgets, rules and the original projection run ID. Only one real draft
per season can be registered, so another capture cannot silently overwrite or
count the same draft twice. Settings for an enabled recording are frozen. Load the
saved draft to continue it on another device, then enter the key to resume writes.
Loading makes a browser backup of the current local workspace before switching.

The local journal is saved immediately. A separate uploader batches up to 100
events after a short 300 ms coalescing window and retries transient failures.
It never blocks Yahoo capture or bid recommendations on a database round trip.
The save strip distinguishes local-only, saving, saved, paused and error states.
The key persists for the current browser tab, not inside the draft or its exports.
After a page reload, already-saved event prefixes are verified before appending.
Two conflicting writers stop with a conflict; they never overwrite the journal.
A server acknowledgement occurs only after the transaction commits. The extension
acknowledgement still follows the durable local browser save, independently of
network availability. Browser deletion before pending uploads finish loses those
local-only events; the saved archive contains only acknowledged server events.

Postgres tables: recorded_drafts, recorded_draft_events, recorded_team_snapshots.
Events preserve player, team, bid/sale amount, observation time, source, captured
names and recovered/history flags. Losing bids are retained. Undo appends a new
event; the original stays in the audit log and stops affecting effective rosters
and manager summaries. Every sale/undo stores all teams' rosters, remaining cash,
projected player-games, season totals, per-player-game averages, weighted shooting,
category ranks/points and total roto score/rank. The pre-draft snapshot is retained.
Snapshots use the same games-cap and tie rules as the live board. They never fill
empty roster slots or treat projections as actual season results. Imported old
workbook rows, keeper source files and frozen valuation runs are not modified.

Saved drafts provides the full event log, including undone entries, every saved
roster/projection snapshot, an export and a way to continue a saved draft. Mark
draft complete only after all captures are reconciled and saved. Reopen explicitly
before corrections; retries of already-stored events are safe after completion.

Manager history uses real archived drafts only. For each named league franchise
it retains seasons observed, total observed bids, completed auctions entered,
wins/losses among those auctions, auctions with multiple distinct live bid amounts,
premium participation, auctions reaching a premium bid, premium purchases and the
highest observed bid. Premium is 20% of that team's original budget ($40 of $200).
A premium opportunity requires a captured nomination with a saved expected price
at least that threshold, enough legal cash at nomination to meet the threshold,
and a confirmed sale. Recovered results without a captured nomination do not
invent opportunities. Historical bid rows count as participation but do not invent
live raise frequency. Missing bids can undercount all observed behavior.

For future opponent interest, premium participation is shrunk toward the league
rate using 12 prior opportunities. The factor is 1 + 0.6 * (smoothed participation
minus league participation), bounded to 0.8-1.2 and used only after five eligible
opportunities. It adjusts the existing estimated opponent interest cap for premium
players, never affordability, observed leading bids, own recommendations or actual
roto scoring. The active local draft is excluded from the prior-history signal.
Repeat-bid and losing-auction rates appear as observed tendencies, not assertions
of intent to inflate prices or calibrated probabilities. Imported purchase-only
history cannot reconstruct losing bidders and is not presented as bid evidence.

Safe Yahoo mock testing
Open /?yahooMock=1#draft from the Open Yahoo mock test link. This uses the separate
survivor.yahoo-mock.v1 storage key. Configure the mock room's actual team names,
budget and roster size; it starts with no keepers. The built-in simulator remains
separate from this watcher-driven mock. Neither mock type uploads to real archives
or contributes to manager history. Real-recording endpoints reject non-real
purpose, practice mode and simulated-source events. The normal Draft workspace
and its local pending updates/maps are untouched by the mock workspace.

Explicit Advanced pairing pauses capture whenever a Survivor destination is paired and
requires an explicit Watch Yahoo tab action afterward. Unsent events remain bound
to their original session. Review them before clearing a stale queue. This avoids
automatically carrying an old Yahoo room into a newly selected real/mock target.

Model mechanics (draft-engine.js)
Saved expected price, neutral value, production projections and survivor scores
remain unchanged. This live layer is separate from the historical v11 model.

Market pressure is remaining discretionary cash divided by the remaining top-N
players' baseline price weight, relative to that same ratio at draft opening.
N equals remaining roster slots. Minimum-bid reserves are removed first.
A completed live sale contributes one bounded log price residual against the
estimate immediately before that sale. Similarity combines baseline price tier,
category distance and position overlap. Six comparable sales of prior weight
shrink early estimates; no individual bid is a separate training sale.
Thus a cheap early sale can leave more cash for the remaining room even while
similar-player demand softens. Overpaying for stars can lift their peers' demand
adjustment while reducing the remaining league's purchasing power.
Recovered past sale rows update budgets/rosters but contribute no retrospectively
invented pre-sale forecast or live residual sample. Display confidence labels are
sample descriptions, not calibrated probabilities or prediction intervals.

Team outlook and player impact
Every nominated-player category shows the owned roster's average before and after
adding that player: green/up, red/down, or neutral. Counting averages use projected
player-games, and FG/FT use projected makes divided by attempts. A priority badge
marks a weak category, even when that particular player makes it worse.

All standings and scores use only players actually owned by each team: confirmed
keepers plus completed draft purchases. Open slots contribute no assumed player
production. Remaining budgets and undrafted-player forecasts do not change those
totals or ranks. Different roster sizes are compared as they currently stand.
The displayed figures are season projections for these rosters, not statistics
already accumulated in NBA games or a forecast of future draft selections.

Your team outlook sits above Available players. Category cards show current-roster
season totals (percentages for FG/FT), rank and need/strength labels. Show comparison
includes season total, rank now, exact roto points, gap to the next distinct team
and the nominated-player preview. A total row at the bottom shows overall rank,
summed roto points, and the with-player score/rank/change, followed by the full
league standings.
Each counting card also shows the owned roster's per-player-game average, its
strength label, the median team average and percentage difference from that
median. The rate divides uncapped projected production by projected player-games;
it is not an unweighted mean of player averages. Top-third rates above the median
are Strong; bottom-third rates below it are Needs attention; the rest are
Competitive. Ties use the occupied middle rank, and unavailable rates are excluded
from the median. Fewer than two valid teams show no comparison. FG/FT are already
attempt-weighted rates: they show the median and difference in percentage points,
without a separate counting-average label.

Player count and capped projected games appear next to their league medians.
Counting cards explain strong total and average, extra games helping the total,
or a strong average held back by fewer games. These labels compare the current
rosters only; they do not predict future picks. Average/volume comparisons are
display-only and do not change standings, roto points, fit, bid caps or opponent
bidding. Existing category ranks and card colors remain based on totals (shooting
percentages for FG/FT).

Clicking a category sorts available players by its projected improvement.
The wallet and outlook summary show current-roster overall rank and projected
season roto score. Best receives 15 points per category, last receives one, and
ties share the points of the occupied places. All eight categories sum to the
overall score; total-point ties share an overall rank.

Owned totals sum each player's per-game forecast times projected games. Totals are
proportionally limited to 1,000 player-games by default, without inflating rosters
that project fewer games. The limit is configurable under Roster & reserve; older
saved sessions default to 1,000. Shooting percentages retain their attempt weights.
The season horizon is shared across teams. Waiver additions, future draft picks,
lineup optimization and elimination outcomes are not predicted. Published player
projections and neutral values remain frozen.

The with-player preview adds exactly that player to your current roster. Other
rosters remain unchanged. Category points for every team are recomputed against
the changed totals to show the nominee's effect on overall score and rank.
Money affects affordability and bid caps, not assumed changes to the remaining
roster. A completed sale or undo updates every team's standings immediately.

Fit uses smooth category-point changes against the actual owned rosters, so nearly
tied ranks do not create abrupt bid jumps. The comparison scale is category
dispersion with floors of 6% of mean counting production (at least one), 0.3
percentage points FG and 0.4 percentage points FT. Smooth comparisons use 40% of
that scale. Categories in the bottom third receive an additional bounded need
adjustment; tied teams use their shared middle rank for need labels. A comfortable
lead receives less marginal reward than an attainable category gain.
The fit multiplier is 1 + .045 * total smooth category-point change + .07 * summed
normalized priority-category change, bounded to 0.75–1.30. Each priority-category
change is bounded to -2..2. Strong fit, Good fit, Trade-off and Limited fit labels
describe current-roster improvements and costs. Displayed roto scores use exact
ranks and shared tie points, separately from this smooth advisory heuristic.
Player stat arrows show average changes; a player can lower an average while
adding counting-stat totals and category points.

Personal caps start with the remaining pool's neutral value against current cash
and apply this fit multiplier. Caps are floored to whole dollars and constrained
by legal max, reserved cash and configurable position eligibility. Position
fitting uses bipartite assignment rather than a greedy first-position choice.
This is an explainable working heuristic, not an optimized or backtested policy.
It does not infer hidden bids, future injuries or manager intent. Predicted
opponent interest has no fabricated percentage probability. All-team needs and
mock opponent fits use the same outlook calculations as your own team.

Event lifecycle
nominate -> observed bid(s) -> explicit sale; withdraw is available for manual
corrections. Each event has an ID, timestamp and source. Undo references an earlier
event and replays the journal, including budgets and model evidence. Correct a
sale by undoing it and recording the corrected result. Undo dependent later events
first when necessary. Unknown identities and incompatible sales are quarantined
for review; advice pauses while pending updates exist. Sold/kept players leave the
available pool, and a keeper is never an auction-model training observation.

Validation
  node --test tests/draft-engine.test.cjs tests/draft-outlook.test.cjs tests/draft-practice.test.cjs tests/draft-watcher.test.cjs tests/draft-recorder.test.cjs
  python scripts/check_draft.py --url http://127.0.0.1:8080 --browser <chrome.exe>
  python scripts/check_dashboard.py --url http://127.0.0.1:8080 --browser <chrome.exe>
  python scripts/check_mock_draft.py --url http://127.0.0.1:8080 --browser <chrome.exe>
  python scripts/check_draft_outlook.py --url http://127.0.0.1:8080 --browser <chrome.exe>
The outlook check covers all eight impacts, independent average/median/volume arithmetic,
keyboard category sorting, team changes, bid refreshes, the games limit, live
isolation and desktop/split/mobile layouts.
The existing dashboard check opens #history explicitly now that Draft is default.
The draft browser check verifies practice isolation, reload persistence, name
mapping, stale advice, duplicate delivery, responsive layout and the real passive
content script against controlled synthetic draft markup. It does not log into
Yahoo or prove compatibility with Yahoo's present DOM.

Release validation on October 9, 2026 covered all 105 Python regression tests:
104 passed in the full run; the remaining test passed after correcting its old
calendar-based expected value, with no production-code change. All 44 JavaScript
tests passed after the timed-mock update. check_mock_draft.py, check_draft.py and
check_dashboard.py passed against the real
Flask application using its in-memory preview, the original workbook, 348 ESPN
projections, 30 confirmed keepers and the computed v11 valuation run. The watcher
fixture uses a separate blank page; the app's strict CSP remains enabled.
Artifacts and screenshots are in artifacts/draft-qa. This validation did not use
the production database and does not replace calibration in a real Yahoo room.

The complete timed-mock simulation used the actual 348-player pool and confirmed
keepers: 195 sales, 983 observed simulated bids, and all 15 rosters filled. No
budget was negative; live events and forecast inputs remained byte-for-byte
unchanged. Mock screenshots and simulation results are in artifacts/mock-draft-qa.

Category-outlook update validation, October 9, 2026:
All 59 JavaScript tests passed (including 15 new outlook cases). The four real
Flask browser suites passed: check_draft_outlook.py, check_mock_draft.py,
check_draft.py and check_dashboard.py. A full 195-sale, 1,071-bid simulation
filled all 15 rosters without negative cash or changing live/forecast inputs.
Desktop, wide, split-screen and mobile outlook captures were inspected.
No backend behavior or published projections changed in this update.

Overall-standings update validation, October 9, 2026:
All 64 JavaScript tests passed, including exact category/overall ties, total-point
ordering and recalculating rival points for a nominated-player scenario. The
focused real-Flask outlook browser suite passed on desktop, split and mobile.

Current-roster correction, October 9, 2026: removed all open-slot fill estimates
from displayed totals, category ranks, overall roto scores and player-fit needs.
The comparison now includes each category's exact roto-point contribution.
Validation for this correction: all 64 JavaScript tests passed, the outlook and
timed-mock browser suites passed, and a complete 195-sale / 859-bid simulation
filled every roster with legal budgets while preserving live and forecast data.

Totals-versus-averages outlook update, October 9, 2026:
All 68 JavaScript tests passed. Four targeted cases cover a low-average totals
leader, a high-average low-volume roster, games/attempt weighting above the cap,
and tied or unavailable rates. Nine comparisons against the preceding published
engine confirmed identical standings, scores, market prices, fit and bid caps.
Browser checks verified independent average/median/volume arithmetic and the
total footer at wide, desktop, split and mobile widths. An uneven five-player
roster correctly showed first-place PTS totals alongside a weak PTS average and
an extra-games explanation.

Recording validation commands (local database only):
  python -m unittest tests.test_draft_records -v
  python scripts/preview_draft_recording.py
  python scripts/check_draft_recording.py --browser <chrome.exe>
The recording browser check refuses non-loopback URLs and requires the explicit
in-memory QA reset endpoint, which is absent from the production application.
The preview optionally accepts --fixture <bootstrap-and-valuations.json> to skip
recomputing forecasts; all recording APIs still use the actual application code.

Recording validation, October 9, 2026:
The full Python suite passed 117 tests; a subsequent focused 13-test recording
run includes the added near-tie/missing-rate projection case. The complete draft
JavaScript suite includes 78 tests. Local browser checks cover real-event saving,
losing bids, correction evidence, saved projection parity for all 15 teams, upload
interruption and retry, reload, cross-profile archive access, separate Yahoo mock
storage with zero recording writes, completion and responsive archive layouts.
A full local recording replay saved 1,249 events (859 bids, 195 purchases), with
196 all-team snapshot versions; final rosters, budgets, category totals/averages
and roto standings exactly matched the live engine. The 13 batches took about
3.0 seconds total locally, with a 782 ms maximum batch while other tests ran.
This is in-memory SQLite performance, not a measured Yahoo or Railway latency.
No synthetic test writes were sent to production and no Railway account access
or configuration changes were performed. Real Yahoo capture still needs its
first live mock-room calibration and end-to-end timing check.

Watcher 0.3 validation (October 9, 2026)
- Automatic routing/import, incognito boundary, room changes, paused capture,
  pending-queue ownership, name ambiguity, and mock-only import regression tests.
- Illustrative browser fixture reads 14 teams, $200, 13 slots, player initials,
  live bid changes and an explicit final result without field overrides.
- Local app browser test imports teams, updates cash after a purchase, preserves
  the same room through reload, backs up a previous mock and leaves real storage
  and the recording database unchanged. Desktop/mobile checks pass.
- This is not live Yahoo validation. Next step: test actual Yahoo DOM and timing
  in a fresh mock room before relying on this adapter for a real league draft.


Watcher 0.3.1 ? nomination capture correction (October 9, 2026)
The owner's actual Yahoo mock successfully imported 12 teams, $200 budgets and
13 roster slots, but did not display the first nomination. The supplied screenshot
shows Giannis at $6, Scott leading, projected price $55, and bid badges in team rows.

Fixed reproduced parser failures:
- Expand from the bidding-controls container to the enclosing nomination card.
- Distinguish the actual current bid from the offer input, budget and projected price.
- Preserve the team name and wallet when Yahoo adds a last-bid dollar badge.
- Read visible player text even if its title attribute describes a UI action.
- Keep the reader's completed-pick region across periodic script reinjection.

The popup distinguishes waiting from an explicit user pause. Advanced setup adds
Download diagnostics: local normalized observations, matched field candidates and
connection state, without the recording key, cookies or full-page HTML.

Validation: 87 JavaScript cases pass. The full local browser flow runs the actual
background, reader, capture, bridge and app scripts with emulated Chrome messaging
and an illustrative Yahoo fixture. It verifies automatic import, Giannis $6/Scott,
a bid ladder, an explicit sale, the $159 winning budget, the next nomination, and
zero real-recording writes. This fixture is not the actual Yahoo DOM; corrected
live nomination/bid/sale capture remains to be verified by the owner.
